## Traffic Accidents Bonus Exercise

For this bonus exercise, you'll be working with a subset of the full traffic accidents dataset - the accients which occurred in the year 2018. However, the data is formatted in a different way - each month is split out into a different sheet. 

1. Start by creating a new spreadsheet called "Analysis". Move this sheet so that it is the first one in the workbook.
2. In cell A1, enter "Month Num". Below this, generate a sequence of numbers from 1 to 12. When you do this, use Excel's ability to Auto Fill a sequence, as describe here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/fill-data-automatically-in-worksheet-cells-74e31bdd-d993-45da-aa82-35a236c5b5db 
3. Now, in cell B1, type "Month Name". Use Excel formulas to fill in the month abbreviations ("Jan", "Feb", etc.). Hint: you might want to use the TEXT funtion in combination with the DATE function to do this. Make sure that you are referencing the values that you created in column A and dragging the formula to copy. (Note: you can also generate the sequence of month abbreviations using the Auto Fill sequence rather than using the formula method - try it out.)
4. In cell C1, type "Total Number of Accidents". Then, write a formula that you can copy down to count the total number of accidents for each month. Hint: The INDIRECT function can be used to reference cells using a text string. See https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/indirect-function-474b3a3a-8a26-4f44-b491-92b6306fa261.
5. Make a new sheet named "Precincts". In this spreadsheet, create a list of all of the distinct precincts that appear in the dataset. Hint: See the UNIQUE function. You might also combine it with the SORT function.
6. In the Analysis tab, in cell C15 type "Select a Precinct:". Then in cell D15 make use of Data Validation to create a dropdown where you can select a precinct name from the list you created in the previous question. Hint: See https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/create-a-drop-down-list-7693307a-59ef-400a-b769-c5402dce407b 
7. In column D, use a formula to count the number of accidents that occurred in the selected precinct. Write your formula in cell D2 so that you can copy it down the column to fill in the rest. Also, make your column name in cell D1 change based on the selected precinct.
8. Create a line chart which displays the number of accidents for the selected precinct by month.
9. Create another line chart which shows the total number of accidents for the selected precinct and the total number of accidents overall. Since it will be difficult to see the trend in the selected precinct versus the overall numbers, you might want to try making it into a combination chart with a primary and secondary axis (https://support.microsoft.com/en-au/office/create-a-combination-chart-cf2c969a-b11e-4a62-bb8f-da021177452f). Does the trend in the number of accidents by precinct seem to follow the overall trend?
10. You might have noticed that each accident can have one or more harmful codes. In column T, count the number of harmful codes that the accident has. Hint: each harmful code is separated by a semicolon. If you can count the number of semicolons, you can use this to find the number of harmful codes. Note: You can enter a formula across multiple sheets at the same time. To do this, hold down the CTRL key and click on each sheet that you want to select. Now, when you enter a formula in one, it will also be added to the rest. See https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/select-worksheets-096b40c9-0ee7-4980-bac6-cc92aec7b266
11. What is the largest number of harmful codes for an accident?
12. Finally, it would be interesting to see how often each harmful code occurs. To do this, first, we should split the harmful code field into multiple fields. Do this at the end of the table for each month. There are two ways to accomplish this. First, you can try the TEXTSPLIT function. Another approach is to use the Text to Columns button in the Data tab.
13. How often did each code occur during 2018? To answer this, first create a column for each month in the "Harmful Types" tab. Then use the COUNTIF function to count the number of occurrences per code. Write a formula which you can copy both across and down. Finally, create a total column where you count the total across all months. 